Recount briefly the history of man-made networks.
Describe the general structure of a network.
Name a few examples of physical, biological, social and information networks.
Describe how the structure of various networks is revealed empirically.
Define a binary relation and establish a connection with its graph.
Tell the difference between a graph and a hyper-graph. Depict a given hyper-graph by a bipartite network.
Explain the difference between a multi-graph and a simple graph.
Define the graph adjacency matrix.
Compare the co-citation and bibliographic coupling.
Explain the two one-mode projections of a bipartite network.
Define planar networks and state the 'four color' theorem.
Explain the difference between a sparse and a dense network.
Define a path and explain the difference between an Eulerian and a Hamiltonian path.
State the min-cut max-flow theorem.
Define the graph Laplacian matrix and its relation to diffusion processes on graphs.
State the Geršgorin disc theorem and explain how it is applied to the graph Laplacian.
Define the Fiedler eigenvalue and explain its significance for the graph topology.
Define the Frobenius form of the graph Laplacian and explain how it reveals the graph topology.
Define the Metzler matrix.
Define the M-matrix.
Explain how the geometric multiplicity of eigenvalues differ from the algebraic one.
Explain the meaning of the geometric multiplicity of a zero eigenvalue for graph Laplacians.
Define the left zero eigenvector.
Define a balanced graph.
Define a strongly connected graph.
Define the degree centrality.
Motivate the eigenvector centrality.
Explain the difference between the eigenvector centrality and the Katz centrality.
Define PageRank and modified PageRank.
Explain hubs and authorities and their relation to co-citation and bibliographic coupling.
Define closeness centrality and discuss different variants thereof.
Define betweenness centrality.
Explain the difference between cliques, plexes and cores.
Define k-components and compare them with connected components.
Define transitivity of a network in any of equivalent ways.
Define local clustering.
Explain the concept of reciprocity and how it relates to loops of length two.
Define structural balance for networks with signed edges. Show that structurally balanced network is certainly clusterable (Harrary's theorem).
Show by counterexample that a clusterable network need not be structurally balanced.
Explain vertex similarity.
Define structural and regular equivalence and explain the differences of them.
Define homophily and assortative mixing in networks.
Define assortative mixing with respect to scalar characteristics. Explain how does it differ from that for enumerative characteristics.
Define the modularity matrix for undirected networks.
Explain assortative mixing with respect to the degree. Discuss what are its implications on the network topology.
Define the power law distributions, explain how to calculate their moments.
Explain the effect of top heavy distribution of vertex degrees for the networks.
Explain the importance of the small world effect for the functionality of computer networks.
Explain the concept of algorithm complexity. Define the O notation.
Explain how the network topology is represented in computer memory. Compare the adjacency matrix and the adjacency list.
Define the tree data structure. What is a balanced tree and what is the worst case complexity of finding an element in it?
Explain how trees are used to represent networks.
Define a binary heap. Why would one use such a structure in network algorithms?
Describe the breadth-first search algorithm.
Explain the computational complexity of the naive implementation of the breadth-first search.
Explain the computational complexity of the more sophisticated implementation of the breadth-first search using a buffer.
Describe how to find the actual shortest paths. Assume first single shortest paths, then generalize to possible multiple shortest paths.
Describe Dijkstra's algorithm, explain why it works and analyze its computational complexity.
Explain how to apply Dijkstra's algorithm to find the actual least weight path tree for a given starting vertex.
Explain how to find the betweenness centrality of a given vertex using either the breadth-first search or Dijkstra's algorithm.
Describe the augmenting path algorithm (Ford-Fulkerson algorithm).
Describe the power method for finding leading eigenvalues and eigenvectors. What is the importance of choosing the initial seed?
Explain how to efficiently find all eigenvalues and eigenvectors of a given matrix. Specify which algorithms are used for matrix transformation and efficient solution of the transformed eigen-problem, given different starting matrices (symmetric/asymmetric, sparse/dense).
Why to use heuristic algorithms in general, even if no proof of correctness is available?
What is the difference between the graph partitioning and the community detection problems?
Describe the Kernighan-Lin algorithm for graph partitioning. What is its computational complexity? What is roughly the size of the network for which it can be reasonably expected to work?
Describe the spectral partitioning algorithm. Explain the importance of the graph Laplacian matrix and its Fiedler eigenvalue. What is its computational complexity? What is roughly the size of a network for which it can be reasonably expected to work?
Describe the variant Kernighan-Lin algorithm for community detection. What is its complexity? How does it compare to the original Kernighan-Lin algorithm for graph partitioning?
Describe the spectral modularity maximization method of community detection. Explain the importance of the modularity matrix and its leading eigenvector.
How does repeated bisection work for modularity maximization? Compare it with the same approach in graph partitioning.
Briefly describe simulated annealing, genetic algorithm and greedy algorithm for modularity maximization.
Describe the algorithm using betweenness centrality for community detection. How does the Radicci algorithm differ from it?
Explain how the agglomerative algorithms proceed in community detection.
Define hierarchical clustering. What is a dendrogram? Explain the similarity-based hierarchical clustering with single-, complete- and average-linkage clustering.
Comment on which of the algorithms detect a fixed number vs. an unspecified number of communities.
Explain the difference between site and bond percolation.
Describe uniform and non-uniform vertex removal. Comment on the robustness of power law networks to vertex removal.
Describe a few examples of fully mixed epidemics models, e.g. SI, SIR, SIS, SEIR.
Explain how to model epidemics on networks. What is the role of vertices and vertex variables?
Describe the Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model. Explain various ways how it extends to the network setting.
Enumerate the stages of the traditional (offline) web search. Explain how the algorithms used in modern web search engines such as Google differ from the traditional web search.
Explain the web crawling procedure. Give examples of advanced techniques that facilitate the web crawling process.
Describe the process of indexing in web search, both the simple version and its possible extensions.
Describe simple search in distributed databases. What is its complexity if the file is present only on a single computer in the network? How does the complexity change if the file exists on a fixed fraction of computers in the network?
Explain how supernodes improve the search in distributed networks.
Describe the two models of message passing, i.e., the Kleinberg's model and the hierarchical model, and enumerate their limitations (assumptions). What is the complexity of message passing in these models?
Elaborate on the constraints that have to be imposed on networks as the main conclusion of message passing analysis using models.
Define the consensus/synchronization problem in states and outputs. Explain the difference between homogeneous and heterogeneous agents.
Write the single-integrator leaderless consensus dynamics in continuous time. How to include a leader?
Write the single-integrator leaderless consensus dynamics in discrete time. How to include a leader?
Set up the dynamical equations for continuous-time homogeneous LTI agents using local neighborhood error signal for state synchronization.
Show how to use complex matrix pencils for investigating state synchronization of homogeneous agents.
Show that with the distributed feedback gain designed from the single-agent Algebraic Riccati Equation the resulting synchronizing region is an unbounded left-hand half-plane in the complex plane.
What are the necessary topological conditions on the communication graph for consensus or synchronization? Explain the dynamical role of the Fiedler eigenvalue in continuous time single integrator consensus